examples/pokemon/pages/examples/index.mdx, before:

# Interactive GraphQL Examples

Welcome to the interactive GraphQL examples! These pages demonstrate Polen's interactive code blocks with hover tooltips, click navigation, and inline error hints.

## Explore by Domain

Dive into different aspects of the Pokemon universe:

- **[Pokemon Basics](/examples/pokemon-basics)** - Query individual Pokemon, their types, and abilities
- **[Trainer Journeys](/examples/trainer-journeys)** - Explore trainer profiles, badges, and team compositions  
- **[Battle Mechanics](/examples/battle-mechanics)** - Understand type effectiveness, moves, and battle strategies
- **[Evolution Chains](/examples/evolution-chains)** - Discover how Pokemon evolve and their requirements
- **[Advanced Queries](/examples/advanced-queries)** - Learn about fragments, variables, and complex selections

## Features Demonstrated

### 🎯 Interactive Elements
- **Hover** over any field, type, or argument to see detailed information
- **Click** to pin tooltips and explore at your own pace
- **Navigate** directly to schema documentation with clickable links

### 🚨 Error Handling
```graphql interactive
query InvalidExample {
  pokemon(id: "001") {
    name
    types
    level         # ← This field doesn't exist!
    abilities {
      name
      power       # ← Abilities don't have power!
    }
  }
}
```

### 🔍 Syntax Highlighting
All GraphQL syntax is properly highlighted including:
- Keywords (`query`, `fragment`, `on`)
- Types and fields with different colors
- Arguments and variables
- Comments and descriptions

Commit message:

feat: separate revision/versions concepts (#135)

examples/pokemon/pages/examples/index.mdx, after:

# Interactive GraphQL Examples

Welcome to the interactive GraphQL examples! These pages demonstrate Polen's interactive code blocks with hover tooltips, click navigation, and inline error hints.

## Schema Versions

This Pokemon API has evolved through 3 major versions:
- **v1.0.0** - Basic Pokemon data with simple types and stats
- **v2.0.0** - Added trainers, battles, evolution, and mutations
- **v3.0.0** - Full-featured with subscriptions, pagination, and advanced battle mechanics

Use the version picker in the top navigation to explore different versions of the schema.

## Explore by Domain

Dive into different aspects of the Pokemon universe:

- **[Pokemon Basics](/examples/pokemon-basics)** - Query individual Pokemon, their types, and abilities
- **[Trainer Journeys](/examples/trainer-journeys)** - Explore trainer profiles, badges, and team compositions  
- **[Battle Mechanics](/examples/battle-mechanics)** - Understand type effectiveness, moves, and battle strategies
- **[Evolution Chains](/examples/evolution-chains)** - Discover how Pokemon evolve and their requirements
- **[Advanced Queries](/examples/advanced-queries)** - Learn about fragments, variables, and complex selections

## Features Demonstrated

### 🎯 Interactive Elements
- **Hover** over any field, type, or argument to see detailed information
- **Click** to pin tooltips and explore at your own pace
- **Navigate** directly to schema documentation with clickable links

### 🚨 Error Handling
```graphql interactive
query InvalidExample {
  pokemon(id: "001") {
    name
    types
    level         # ← This field doesn't exist!
    abilities {
      name
      power       # ← Abilities don't have power!
    }
  }
}
```

### 🔍 Syntax Highlighting
All GraphQL syntax is properly highlighted including:
- Keywords (`query`, `fragment`, `on`)
- Types and fields with different colors
- Arguments and variables
- Comments and descriptions
