website/index.md, before:

---
layout: home

hero:
  name: "Polen"
  text: "GraphQL Developer Portals"
  tagline: A framework for building delightful GraphQL developer portals by The Guild
  image:
    src: /logo.svg
    alt: Polen Logo
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get Started
      link: /overview/get-started
    - theme: alt
      text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/the-guild-org/polen

features:
  - title: Schema Reference
    details: Automatically generate a beautiful interactive reference from your GraphQL schema.
  - title: Schema Changelog
    details: Track schema evolution over time with automatically generated changelogs showing additions, removals, and modifications.
  - title: Content
    details: Create custom documentation pages using MDX with full React component support and GraphQL-aware components.
  - title: Multiple Build Architectures
    details: Choose between SSG for static hosting, SSR for dynamic content, or SPA for client-side apps.
  - title: API or CLI
    details: Use Polen as a CLI for quick tasks or integrate it as an API in your build pipeline.
  - title: User & Project Context
    details: Future-ready architecture for user authentication, project switching, and personalized documentation experiences.
  - title: Proven Track Record
    details: Built by The Guild, creators of GraphQL tools used by thousands of developers worldwide.
  - title: DX
    details: Fast builds and hot reload powered by Vite. Beautiful themes and components powered by Radix.
---

Commit message:

chore(website): improve pages docs and more

website/index.md, after:

---
layout: home

hero:
  name: "Polen"
  text: "GraphQL Developer Portals"
  tagline: A framework for building delightful GraphQL developer portals by The Guild
  image:
    src: /logo.svg
    alt: Polen Logo
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get Started
      link: /overview/get-started
    - theme: alt
      text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/the-guild-org/polen

features:
  - title: Schema Reference
    details: Automatically generate a beautiful interactive reference from your GraphQL schema.
  - title: Schema Changelog
    details: Track schema evolution over time with automatically generated changelogs showing additions, removals, and modifications.
  - title: Content
    details: Create custom documentation pages using MDX with full React component support and GraphQL-aware components.
  - title: Multiple Build Architectures
    details: Choose between SSG for static hosting, SSR for dynamic content, or SPA for client-side apps.
  - title: API or CLI
    details: Use Polen as a CLI for quick tasks or integrate it as an API in your build pipeline.
  - title: User & Project Context
    details: Future-ready architecture for user authentication, project switching, and personalized documentation experiences.
  - title: Proven Track Record
    details: Built by The Guild, creators of GraphQL tools used by thousands of developers worldwide.
  - title: Interactive Document Blocks
    details: GraphQL code blocks that come alive with hover overlays, error detection, inline hints, click-to-explore, and more.
---
